 
Student Assignment Brief  
CONFIDENTIAL DOCUMENT  
This document is intended solely for Softwarica College of IT & E -Commerce students for their own use in 
completing their assessed work for this module. It must not be passed to third parties or posted on any website.  
Contents  
• Assignment Information  
• Assessed Module Learning Outcomes  
• Assignment Task  
• Marking and Feedback  
• Assignment Support and Academic Integrity  
• Assessment Marking Criteria  
Assignment Information  
Module Name:  Machine Learning  
Module Code:  STW7072 CEM  
Assignment Title:  CW 
Assignment Due:  30 April. 2026  

Assignment Credit:  15 credits  
Word Count:  3000  
Assignment Type:  Project Development  
Grading:  Percentage Grade (Applied Core Assessment)  
Assessment Overview  
You will be provided with an overall grade between 0% and 100%. You have one opportunity to pass the 
assignment at or above 40%.  
Important Notice  
The work you submit for this assignment must be your own independent work . More information is 
available in the 'Assignment Task' section of this assignment brief.  
Assessed Module Learning Outcomes  
Module Learning Outcomes:  
 
Please read all instructions and information carefully.  
1. This assignment contributes 100% to your final module mark and will assess the following learning 
outcomes:  
2. Knowledge  
3. Knowing a variety of Machine Learning approaches in use in industry or research can help them 
select and use the best Machine Learning strategies for the challenges that occur.  
4. Awareness of recent and upcoming developments in machine learning and its applications.  
5. Skills  
6. Assess real -world problems and determine which Machine Learning approaches are suitable for 
their solutions.  
7. Apply various Machine Learning models and techniques in the solutions of a range of problems, 
and characterize the expected performance of a model, and compare with other techniques.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assignment Task  
Task:  
 
• This assignment will involve the development of practical work, software planning for an 
intelligent application prototype, and the development of that prototype.  
• You have been issued exercises associated with lab work throughout the module.   
• The planning and development of the intelligent application prototype will make use of the 
knowledge and materials that you have been collecting.  
• Intelligent application prototype in the python programming language using Jupyter Notebook or 
Google Colab.  
Project Prototype:  Applying Machine Learning techniques such as clustering and classification to address 
real-world problems in Nepal.  
      Context:  
      You were familiar with many machine learning methods, related ideas, and applications during 
this module. Several classification techniques were studied, including Generalized Logistic 
Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis, Optimized K -nearest Neighbor,  Bayesian and Statistical 
Methods, Support Vector Machines, and Decision Trees. In addition, we examined feature selection 
and extraction techniques like Principal Component Analysis as well as clustering algorithms like K -
means. You must choose an a pplication that relates to a classification, clustering, or anomaly 
detection problem for this project and investigate the most effective way to use machine learning 
methods to solve it. You are open to choosing any datasets available.  
 
Sources:  https://www.kaggle.com  or https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets.php  and need to apply 
3 different classification or clustering techniques on it.  
 
 
 
 
      The purpose of this coursework is to  
• Analyze the core ideas of machine learning, as well as how they are used.  
• Ensure that a dataset is properly prepared and then assess how  various learning algorithms work 
on it.  
• Learn how to choose machine learning methods to address a real -world classification or clustering 
issue.  
 
     You will be required to:  
● Write a report on your own, independently (using your own words to describe the 
deliverable and to highlight your personal contributions as well).  
● If you are unclear about this, ask the professor.    
● You are encouraged to regularly submit work in progress for formative feedback to help 
you improve your final submission.  
● READ the five samples at the bottom of the "Module Essentials >> Campus : 
https://www.c4mpus.com/ " Page  before you begin. Understanding the components and 
requirements of the CW is crucial for you.  
    The following sections should generally be included in the paper:  
 
● Abstract  
● The problem is introduced along with a brief literature review of related work in the introduction; 
if the literature review is longer, it is advised to be in  its own section, as this would be preferable.  
● Problem and Data set(s) description (where you describe the problem in detail. you want to solve 
and its significance)  
● Methods (where you shortly describe the machine learning methods and/or other methods 
employed to solve the problem)  
● Experimental setup (including data pre -processing, feature selection and extraction, 
classification/clustering parameters)  
● Results  
● Discussion and Conclusions  
● References  
These are general section headings that you can modify to fit the application or problem under 
investigation. Sections discussing fresh and unique developments or modifications of algorithms relevant 
to your work may be included.  
Your code needs to be developed in the python programming language using Jupyter Notebook or Google 
Colab  and submitted as a zip file. You should include a comprehensive set of instructions  for the 
successful execution of your code as well as a short screencast/video of your code running  (or a link to 
the screencast/video if it is too large to include).  
More information of how to write  a paper is available at the following link: “Crafting Papers on Machine 
Learning”, by Pat Langley (which can be found here if the previous link does not work 
http://www.machinelearning.ru/wiki/images/0/07/Langley00crafting.pdf  ). 
You will need to follow the formatting guidelines of the IEEE Manuscript Template for Conference 
Proceedings ( https://www.ieee.org/conferences/publishing/templates.html ). 
As mentioned above, you must choose a real -world classification/clustering issue and one or more 
suitable dataset(s). Additionally, you can use the links below:  
UCI Machine Learning Repository: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/ ; 
ICML 2019 accepted papers: https://icml.cc/Conferences/2019/Schedule?type=Poster ; 
Kaggle competitions: http://www.kaggle.com/competitions ; 
Stanford machine learning projects: http://cs229.stanford.edu/projects2013.html , 
http://cs229.stanford.edu/projects2012.html,http://cs229.stanford.edu/projects2011.html , 
http://cs229.stanford.edu/projects2016.html  . 
● You will draft a proposal (no longer than one A4 page) outlining the project's title and must 
present your tutor with this plan to receive constructive criticism.  
● You will need to investigate and read related work in the next 2 days. You are welcome to submit 
an individually written short literature review of your findings in order to get formative feedback.  
● You must choose, implement, and apply the best machine learning algorithms to the chosen 
problem throughout the course of the next two to three weeks. If necessary, you must also 
execute data pre -processing.  
● You are welcome to report your progress to receive regular feedback from the module leader or 
tutor in the following 2 support weeks, via some scheduled meetings with the module leader.  
● You have to write up your final paper and submit it by the deadline specified on the first page.  
 
 
 
 
Submission Instructions  
Requirement  Details  
File Naming  NAME_studentID  
File Format  .docx/.pdf format  
Submission Method  Campus 4.0 platform (submission link provided 2 weeks before deadline)  
Marking and Feedback  
How will my assignment be marked?  
Your assignment will be marked by the Module Team using standardized criteria.  
How will I receive grades and feedback?  
Provisional marks will be released once internally moderated. Feedback will be provided alongside 
grades release within 2 weeks (10 working days).  
What will I be marked against?  
Details of the marking criteria for this task can be found in the Assessment Marking Criteria section at 
the end of this brief.  
Grade Requirements  
You must achieve 40% or above to pass this assessment. Ensure you understand the marking criteria for 
successful completion.  
Assignment Support and Academic Integrity  
Getting Help  
If you have any questions about this assignment, please meet your respective module leader or teacher 
for more information.  
Language Standards  
You are expected to use effective, accurate, and appropriate language within this assessment task.  
Academic Integrity  
The work you submit must be your own. All sources of information need to be acknowledged and 
attributed; therefore, you must provide references for all sources of information and acknowledge any 
tools used in the production of your work, excluding Artificial Intelligence (AI) . 
We use detection software and make routine checks for evidence of academic misconduct. Definitions 
of academic misconduct, including plagiarism, self -plagiarism, and collusion can be found in Student 
handbook on Campus 4.0.  
All cases of suspected academic misconduct are referred to for investigation, the outcomes of which can 
have profound consequences for your studies.  
 
Support for Students with Disabilities  
If you have a disability, long -term health condition, specific learning differences , mental health diagnosis 
or symptoms, contact the Student Support Office for assistance.  
Unable to Submit on Time?  
If events prevent you from submitting on time, guidance on extenuating circumstances is available in 
the Student Handbook or from the Student Support Office.  
Administration of Assessment  
Module Leader Name:  Shrawan Thakur  
Module Leader Email:  stw0049@softwarica.edu.np  
Assignment Category:  Assignment  
Attempt Type:  Standard  
Component Code:  CW 
Assessment Criteria  
Marking Criteria for the paper:  
                                     Criterion                                                                             Marks  
Technical quality  
1. Rigor and extent of the experiments.  
2. Correct application of the selected algorithms 
and suitability of the methods.  
3. Data preparation - technical quality.  
4. Extent of evidence of running the experiments 
provided in appendices.   
 
 
10%  
10%  
 
 
10%  
10%  
Evaluation  
5. Discussion and evaluation of the findings. 
Why are the outcomes significant? What 
applications would the findings have for 
other academics or professionals?  
6. Is this a "serious" issue or just a minor "toy" 
issue? In what ways does the paper improve 
the field of study?   
 
 
15%  
 
 
 
 
5% 
7. Social, ethical, legal,  and professional 
considerations related to the problem in 
question.   
5% 
Clarity of the writing:  
8. Is there sufficient information for the reader 
to reproduce the results? Is the language 
used on the paper good?  
9. References and general presentation; Are 
results clearly presented, with appropriate 
visualizations?  
  
 
 
10%  
 
 
 
5% 
Originality:  
10. Is there some original approach to the 
problem, the original  use of techniques?  
11. Is there any (and how much) difference from 
previous contributions?   
 
 
10%  
 
 
10%  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General marking guidelines (for all coursework)  
Mark allocation guidelines to students (to be edited by staff per assessment)  
0-39 40-49 
 50-59 
 60-69 
 70+ 
 80+ 
 
Work mainly 
incomplete and 
/or weaknesses in 
most area  Most elements 
completed; 
weaknesses 
outweigh 
strengths  
 Most elements 
are strong, minor 
weaknesses  
 Strengths in all 
elements  
 Most work 
exceeds the 
standard expected  
 All work 
substantially 
exceeds the 
standard expected  
 
 
 
 
Notes:  
1. You are expected to use the Coventry University APA style for referencing. For support and advice on this, students can conta ct the Centre 
for Academic Writing (CAW).  
2. Please notify your academic services team and module leader of disability support.  
3. The college cannot take responsibility for any coursework lost or corrupted on disks, laptops, or personal computers. Student s should 
therefore regularly back up any work and are advised to save it on cloud -based services.  
4. If there are technical or performance issues that prevent students submitting coursework through the online coursework submis sion 
system on the day of a coursework deadline, an appropriate extension to the coursework submission deadline will be agreed. Th is 
extension will normally be 24 hours or the next working day if the deadline falls on a Friday or over the weekend period. Thi s will be 
communicated via your Module Leader.  
5. Collusion between students (where sections of your work are like the work submitted by other students in this or previous mod ule cohorts) 
is taken extremely seriously and will be reported to the academic conduct panel. This applies to both coursework and e xam answers.  
6. A marked difference between your writing style, knowledge and skill level demonstrated in class discussion, any test conditio ns and that 
demonstrated in a coursework assignment may result in you having to undertake a Viva Voce to prove the coursework assig nment is 
entirely your own work.  
7. If you make use of the services of a proofreader in your work, you must keep your original version and make it available as a  demonstration 
of your written efforts.  
8. You must not submit work for assessment that you have already submitted (partially or in full), either for your current cours e or for another 
qualification of this college, with the exception of resits, where for the coursework, you may be asked to rework and improve a previous 
attempt. This requirement will be specifically detailed in your assignment brief or specific course or module information. Wh ere earlier 
work by you is citable, i.e., it has already been published/submitted, you must reference it cle arly. Identical pieces of work submitted 
concurrently may also be considered to be self -plagiarism.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark allocation guidelines to students   
 
GRADE  ANSWER 
RELEVANCE   ARGUMENT & 
COHERENCE   EVIDENCE   SUMMARY   
First  
  ≥70  Innovative response, 
answers the   
question fully  
addressing the 
learning 
objectives  of  A clear, consistent 
in-depth critical 
and evaluative  
argument, 
displaying the 
ability to  develop  Wide range of 
appropriate  
supporting 
evidence  
provided, going 
beyond the  An 
outstanding, 
well-
structured 
and 
appropriately   
the assessment 
task.  Evidence 
of critical 
analysis, 
synthesis,  and 
evaluation.  original ideas from 
a range of sources . 
Engagement with 
theoretical and  
conceptual 
analysis.  recommended  
texts. Correctly   
referenced.  referenced 
answer,   
demonstrating a high 
degree of   
understanding and 
critical analytic skills.  
Upper 
Second  
60-69  A very good 
attempt to 
address the 
objectives  of the 
assessment task 
with an emphasis  
on those elements 
requiring critical  
review.   A generally clear 
line of critical and 
evaluative  
arguments  is 
presented.  
Relationships 
between 
statements and 
sections  are easy 
to follow, and 
there is a sound , 
coherent 
structure.   A very good 
range of relevant 
sources is used  in 
a largely 
consistent way as 
supporting  
evidence. There 
is the use  of 
some  sources 
beyond 
recommended 
texts . Correctly 
referenced in the 
main.   The answer 
demonstrates a 
very good 
understanding  of 
theories, 
concepts and 
issues , with 
evidence of 
reading beyond   
the 
recommend
ed 
minimum. 
Well 
organized  
and clearly 
written.   
Lower 
Second  
50-59  Competently 
addresses 
objectives, but 
may  contain 
errors or 
omissions,  and 
critical  
discussion of 
issues may be 
superficial  or  Some critical 
discussion, but the 
argument is  not 
always convincing, 
and the work is 
descriptive  in 
places, with over -
reliance on the  
work of others.   A range of relevant 
sources is used, 
but the  critical 
evaluation aspect 
is not fully 
presented . There is 
limited use of 
sources beyond  
the standard 
recommended  The answer 
demonstrate
s a good 
understandin
g of some 
relevant   
theories, 
concepts and 
issues, but there 
are some errors  
limited in 
places.  materials . 
Referencing is not 
always correctly  
presented.  and irrelevant 
material 
included . The 
structure lacks 
clarity.  
Third  
40-49  Addresses most 
objectives of the   
assessment 
task, with some 
notable 
omissions . The 
structure is 
unclear in 
parts , and 
there is limited 
analysis.   The work is 
descriptive with 
minimal critical  
discussion and 
limited 
theoretical 
engagement .   A limited range of 
relevant sources 
used without  
appropriate 
presentation as 
supporting  or 
conflicting 
evidence coupled 
with  very limited 
critical analysis.   
Referencing has 
some errors.   Some 
understanding is 
demonstrated but 
is incomplete, and 
there is evidence 
of limited  
research on the 
topic. Poor 
structure  and 
presentation, with 
few and /or poorly 
presented 
references.   
Fail  
<40 Some deviation 
from the 
objectives of the 
assessment  task. 
May not 
consistently 
address  the 
assignment 
briefly . At the 
lower  end,  the 
question sets or 
addresses  the 
learning 
outcomes. There 
is minimal 
evidence of  Descriptive with 
no evidence of 
theoretical 
engagement , 
critical discussion 
or theoretical  
engagement. At 
the lower end, it  
displays  a minimal 
level of 
understanding.   Very limited use 
and application of 
relevant  sources 
as supporting 
evidence.  At the 
lower end 
demonstrates a 
lack of real  
understanding. 
Poor presentation 
of references .   Whilst some 
relevant material 
is present, the  
level of 
understanding is 
poor with limited  
evidence of wider 
reading. Poor   
structure and 
poor 
presentation, 
including 
referencing . At 
the lower end 
there is evidence  
of a lack of  
analysis or   
evaluation.  comprehension, 
resulting  in an 
assignment that is 
well below  the 
required standard.  
Late 
submissio
n  0   0   0   0  
 
 
Softwarica College of IT & E -Commerce | In collaboration with Coventry University  
This document is confidential and intended solely for enrolled students.  